+++
title = "Using TMUX for fun and profit"
date = "2020-12-13"
description = "What is TMUX and why it is so good?"
tags = []
+++

# Introduction
Hello peeps. It's me your lazy writer Özgür. In this post I want to share the awesomeness that is called as `tmux` by everyone. Tmux isa terminal multiplier which allows you to use multiple screens on a terminal. Sadly this is a linux toy only - so windozers can skip this. 

# Installation
If you are on a debian derivative all you need is (love? naah. Apt covers us!)

	sudo apt-get install tmux

and after some package installation, you can use it by firing up `tmux` from the console. (Duh)

# Usage
Naw, when you initally fire it up you won't see anything different. Let's change this. Frist let's divide the screen to two. To do that let's hit `CTRL+B+%` 

Neat, huh? To switch from left to right all ya need to do is hit `CTRL+B and Arrow` key. To divide the screen horizontally however we need to do `CTRL+B+"` And we can conjoin them, so we can initially divide the screen horizontally and then we can divide it vertically to have a nice 3 way window. 

We finished? Hell no. What if I said we can have multiple windows? Like I divide window0 into three and run my nice `nmap`,`nikto` and say `sqlmap` and wanna play nethack in another screen while they gather data? To do that I need to hit my good old friend `CTRL+B+C`. 

Noice, huh? To change between panes I only need to hit `CTRL+B 0,1,2...` the desired pane number listed at the bottom. 

To kill an unruly pane we use X, as in `CTRL+B+x`. This kills the pane and the divided windows on it. 

There are many more tips and tricks regarding tmux but these are the stuff I use daily. Go, knock yourselves out m8s!

See you on the flipside!
